# Building a self signed certificate server in golang

This article will be useful to you if you want to create a self signed server in `golang`. There are many ways to deal with certificates to build and run a https server, this article will aproach two of them: with openssl tool and using golang standard libraries.

## Why https?

Firstly let's remember some concepts. The Hypertext Transfer Protocol ([Http](https://tools.ietf.org/html/rfc2616)) specifies a standard track protocol for the internet community and has been in use since 1990. The problem with the use of only http is that the exchanged messages between server and client will not be encripted, so everyone who intercepts those messages will know exactly what that messages means and also can modify the data to masquerade as one of the peers involved. To avoid attacks like [man-in-the-middle](https://tools.ietf.org/html/rfc4949) and to provide private communication the Secure Sockets Layer ([SSL](https://tools.ietf.org/html/rfc6101)) was lauched and it was the pioneer in secure communications protocols, but it was succeeded later by the Transport Layer Security ([TLS](https://tools.ietf.org/html/rfc8446)). TLS is the channel-oriented security protocol currently in use on the internet and it consists in two components: handshake and record protocols.

This document specifies an Internet standards track protocol for the Internet community, and requests discussion and suggestions for improvements

## Why self signed?

## Running the project

To up the client and server containers, run the command below:

``` bash
docker-compose up
```

## Server

The command above will firstly up the server container and will run an ash file called `generate-certificate.sh` that generates a `servercert.key` file which is the private key and `servercert.csr` which is the certificate signing request (CSR) that contains the public key. The `CN` passed in `-subj` is the most important field because some browsers like chrome require that information. `CN` means Common Name and it's the domain name that you would like to have SSL secured. Then, the certificate file will be generated, this file named `servercert.crt` is generated by the last command in the `ash` and it's the self-signed certificate signed by your own `servercert.key` private key. The `x509` flag states the standard format of an SSL/TLS certificate which is `X.509`. Finally, the `https` server will go up because of the `go run main.go` command.

In the `main.go` file we used the cert and the key to serve the `https` self signed server:

``` go
func handleRequests() {

  tlsCert := os.Getenv("tls-certificate")
  tlsKey := os.Getenv("tls-key")
  serverPort := os.Getenv("server-port")

  router := mux.NewRouter().StrictSlash(true)
  controllers.HandleHomeRoutes(router, "https")

  log.Fatal(http.ListenAndServeTLS(serverPort, tlsCert, tlsKey, router))
}
```

and in the `.env` file we declare the cert and key places in the folder hierarchy:

``` env
tls-certificate="certificates/servercert.crt"
tls-key="servercert.key"
```

## Client

The client container has a volume where the server certificate was genereted: `./server/certificates:/certificates`. The reason is because the client needs to trust that certificate to make `https` calls and aply the `TLS` protocol with the two way handshake. That trust was made with the command `update-ca-certificates` when we run `trust-server-certificate.sh`, than we can call the `https` server normally, in the present example we use `curl` calls in the `get-server-home.sh` file.

## Running only the server with a client running locally

To up only the server, run the command below:

``` bash
docker-compose up server
```

than you can run your `https` calls to the server locally. But before, you need to trust the server certificate, if you're using a linux OS, trust the server with the commands described in the `trust-server-certificate.sh` file. Otherwise, follow the steps below:

[Mac Os](https://tosbourn.com/getting-os-x-to-trust-self-signed-ssl-certificates/)

[Windows](https://superuser.com/questions/370217/trust-ssl-certificate-to-local-system-account)

[Linux](https://unix.stackexchange.com/questions/90450/adding-a-self-signed-certificate-to-the-trusted-list)